>> Brian Holt: So everything we've
been doing is through standard IO.
Everything that we've done so
far, more or less probably could
be done by a remote MCP server.
Is that true?
Yeah, it could be done
as a remote MCP server.
It's good to just start with standard IO.
I think cuz that's how most MCP
servers are being run at the moment.
I view streamable HTTP in
the server side event.
They do add some complexity to
them as being something that you
would run as a company, right?
So like as neon we run, we actually have
all three of the MCP servers available
because it's really easy to add.
But we run certainly a remote MCP server.
So Cursor, for example,
can call our MCP server,
which then we could manage
people's services for them.
We're not gonna dwell too
much on server side events.
SSE as it's frequently abbreviated.
The problem with standard IO transport
is it runs locally, right, it's not able
to run on the cloud, it's not able to
run for your business, for your clients.
Wherever the standard
IO server is running,
it is necessarily running on that machine.
So it has to have some level of access.
You can try and lock it down,
you can try and run it in container, but
at the end of the day it's code that's
being executed somewhere that you control,
which is always scary a little bit, right?
So that's why server
side sses were invented.
I would say invented, but
used for MCP servers.
So this was the first attempt
of a remote MCP server.
It's a bit simpler, but it works
relatively similar to how standard IO
does, which is why I
think they went with it,
is that the mental model of how SSE works,
works really similar to standard IO.
And you can see here, this is just
directly from their docs here,
that it has a sub process,
it exchanged message, it rans standard in.
It's basically like bridging
standard IO to the Internet, right?
This had some issues.
The biggest issue is that if it's on
a stable network, everything works okay.
But the moment that your server drops it,
you kinda lose state and
then you have to re establish context.
It's stateful,
as we were talking about earlier.
And that just does not work very well for
anything that's over a network [LAUGH] for
that matter, right?
So they needed something that was
more resilient to dropped sessions,
resumed sessions,
a bunch of stuff like that.
And SSEs were just not a good fit for
that.
If you wanna read more about it,
I'm not gonna talk any more about it here.
This is all from the docs here.
It's still supported,
we still support it for MCP,
but streamable HTTP is much
more of the way forward here.
In other words, I want you to be
aware of it, so if you encounter it,
you're not afraid of it or
anything like that.
But I don't think you
should be writing these.
So I'm not gonna show
you how to write these.
Not that it's very different
from what we've been writing.